There are 7 mitigation methods that can mitigating the attack technique called Adversary-in-the-Middle. Their names are as follows:
* Filter Network Traffic 
* Encrypt Sensitive Information 
* Limit Access to Resource Over Network 
* Disable or Remove Feature or Program 
* User Training 
* Network Intrusion Prevention 
* Network Segmentation 

The following content describes information about mitigation methods. The format of each mitigation method's information is as follows:
Mitigation method name: ***
Mitigation method description: ***
These respectively represent the name of the mitigation method and a detailed description of how it works.

Mitigation method name: Filter Network Traffic
Mitigation method description: Use network appliances to filter ingress or egress traffic and perform protocol-based filtering. Configure software on endpoints to filter network traffic.

Mitigation method name: Encrypt Sensitive Information
Mitigation method description: Protect sensitive information with strong encryption.

Mitigation method name: Limit Access to Resource Over Network
Mitigation method description: Prevent access to file shares, remote access to systems, unnecessary services. Mechanisms to limit access may include use of network concentrators, RDP gateways, etc.

Mitigation method name: Disable or Remove Feature or Program
Mitigation method description: Remove or deny access to unnecessary and potentially vulnerable software to prevent abuse by adversaries.

Mitigation method name: User Training
Mitigation method description: Train users to be aware of access or manipulation attempts by an adversary to reduce the risk of successful spearphishing, social engineering, and other techniques that involve user interaction.

Mitigation method name: Network Intrusion Prevention
Mitigation method description: Use intrusion detection signatures to block traffic at network boundaries.

Mitigation method name: Network Segmentation
Mitigation method description: Architect sections of the network to isolate critical systems, functions, or resources. Use physical and logical segmentation to prevent access to potentially sensitive systems and information. Use a DMZ to contain any internet-facing services that should not be exposed from the internal network. Configure separate virtual private cloud (VPC) instances to isolate critical cloud systems.
