There are 7 mitigation methods that can mitigating the attack technique called LSASS Memory. Their names are as follows:
* Operating System Configuration 
* Credential Access Protection 
* Privileged Process Integrity 
* Privileged Account Management 
* User Training 
* Behavior Prevention on Endpoint 
* Password Policies 

The following content describes information about mitigation methods. The format of each mitigation method's information is as follows:
Mitigation method name: ***
Mitigation method description: ***
These respectively represent the name of the mitigation method and a detailed description of how it works.

Mitigation method name: Operating System Configuration
Mitigation method description: Make configuration changes related to the operating system or a common feature of the operating system that result in system hardening against techniques.

Mitigation method name: Credential Access Protection
Mitigation method description: Use capabilities to prevent successful credential access by adversaries; including blocking forms of credential dumping.

Mitigation method name: Privileged Process Integrity
Mitigation method description: Protect processes with high privileges that can be used to interact with critical system components through use of protected process light, anti-process injection defenses, or other process integrity enforcement measures.

Mitigation method name: Privileged Account Management
Mitigation method description: Manage the creation, modification, use, and permissions associated to privileged accounts, including SYSTEM and root.

Mitigation method name: User Training
Mitigation method description: Train users to be aware of access or manipulation attempts by an adversary to reduce the risk of successful spearphishing, social engineering, and other techniques that involve user interaction.

Mitigation method name: Behavior Prevention on Endpoint
Mitigation method description: Use capabilities to prevent suspicious behavior patterns from occurring on endpoint systems. This could include suspicious process, file, API call, etc. behavior.

Mitigation method name: Password Policies
Mitigation method description: Set and enforce secure password policies for accounts.
