There are 9 mitigation methods that can mitigating the attack technique called Create or Modify System Process. Their names are as follows:
* User Account Management 
* Behavior Prevention on Endpoint 
* Limit Software Installation 
* Privileged Account Management 
* Operating System Configuration 
* Audit 
* Software Configuration 
* Restrict File and Directory Permissions 
* Code Signing 

The following content describes information about mitigation methods. The format of each mitigation method's information is as follows:
Mitigation method name: ***
Mitigation method description: ***
These respectively represent the name of the mitigation method and a detailed description of how it works.

Mitigation method name: User Account Management
Mitigation method description: Manage the creation, modification, use, and permissions associated to user accounts.

Mitigation method name: Behavior Prevention on Endpoint
Mitigation method description: Use capabilities to prevent suspicious behavior patterns from occurring on endpoint systems. This could include suspicious process, file, API call, etc. behavior.

Mitigation method name: Limit Software Installation
Mitigation method description: Block users or groups from installing unapproved software.

Mitigation method name: Privileged Account Management
Mitigation method description: Manage the creation, modification, use, and permissions associated to privileged accounts, including SYSTEM and root.

Mitigation method name: Operating System Configuration
Mitigation method description: Make configuration changes related to the operating system or a common feature of the operating system that result in system hardening against techniques.

Mitigation method name: Audit
Mitigation method description: Perform audits or scans of systems, permissions, insecure software, insecure configurations, etc. to identify potential weaknesses.

Mitigation method name: Software Configuration
Mitigation method description: Implement configuration changes to software (other than the operating system) to mitigate security risks associated to how the software operates.

Mitigation method name: Restrict File and Directory Permissions
Mitigation method description: Restrict access by setting directory and file permissions that are not specific to users or privileged accounts.

Mitigation method name: Code Signing
Mitigation method description: Enforce binary and application integrity with digital signature verification to prevent untrusted code from executing.
