United States Capitol

Article
Talk
Read
Edit
View history

Tools
Coordinates: 38°53′23″N 77°00′32″W
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
This article is about the building. For the group of buildings, see United States Capitol Complex. For the capital city, see Washington, D.C.
United States Capitol

The east front of the U.S. Capitol in 2020
United States Capitol is located in Central Washington, D.C.United States Capitol
Location of the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C.
Show map of Central Washington, D.C.
Show map of the District of Columbia
Show map of the United States
Show all
General information
Architectural style	American neoclassic
Town or city	Capitol Hill, Washington, D.C.
Country	United States
Coordinates	38°53′23″N 77°00′32″W
Construction started	September 18, 1793
Completed	1800 (first occupation)
1962 (last extension)
Client	Washington administration
Technical details
Floor count	5
Floor area	16.5 acres (67,000 m2)[1]
Design and construction
Architect(s)	William Thornton
Benjamin Henry Latrobe (see Architect of the Capitol)
Website
www.aoc.gov/us-capitol-building
United States Capitol
U.S. National Historic Landmark
Added to NRHP	December 19, 1960[2]
The United States Capitol, often called the Capitol or the Capitol Building, is the seat of the United States Congress, the legislative branch of the federal government. It is located on Capitol Hill at the eastern end of the National Mall in Washington, D.C. Although no longer at the geographic center of the national capital, the U.S. Capitol forms the origin point for the street-numbering system of the district as well as its four quadrants. Like the principal buildings of the executive and judicial branches, the Capitol is built in a neoclassical style and has a white exterior.

Central sections of the present building were completed in 1800. These were partly destroyed in the 1814 Burning of Washington, then were fully restored within five years. The building was enlarged in the 1850s by extending the wings for the chambers for the bicameral legislature, the House of Representatives in the south wing and the Senate in the north wing. The massive dome was completed around 1866 just after the American Civil War. The east front portico was extended in 1958. The building's Visitors Center was opened in the early 21st century.

Both its east and west elevations are formally referred to as fronts, although only the east front was intended for the reception of visitors and dignitaries, while the west front is now used for presidential inauguration ceremonies. The building and grounds are overseen by the Architect of the Capitol, who also oversees the surrounding Capitol Complex.
