Headquarters of the United Nations

Article
Talk
Read
Edit
View history

Tools
Coordinates: 40°44′58″N 73°58′5″W
This is a good article. Click here for more information.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Headquarters of the United Nations

View of the complex from Long Island City in 2021; from left to right: the Secretariat, Conference, and General Assembly buildings
MapWikimedia | © OpenStreetMap
Alternative names	
Arabic: مقر الأمم المتحدة
Chinese: 联合国总部大楼
French: Siège des Nations unies
Russian: Штаб-квартира Организации Объединённых Наций
Spanish: Sede de las Naciones Unidas
General information
Architectural style	Modern architecture
Location	New York City (international zone)
Address	760 United Nations Plaza,
Manhattan, New York City, New York, US
Coordinates	40°44′58″N 73°58′5″W
Groundbreaking	September 14, 1948;
75 years ago[1]
Construction started	1948;
76 years ago[1]
Completed	October 9, 1952;
71 years ago[2]
Cost	US$65 million (equivalent to $600 million in 2023)
Owner	United Nations
Height	510 feet (155.3 m)[2]
Technical details
Floor count	39[2]
Design and construction
Architect(s)	Board of designers mediated by Harrison & Abramovitz
Main contractor	Fuller, Turner, Slattery, and Walsh[3

The headquarters of the United Nations (UN) is on 17 to 18 acres (6.9 to 7.3 ha) of grounds in the Turtle Bay neighborhood of Midtown Manhattan in New York City. It borders First Avenue to the west, 42nd Street to the south, 48th Street to the north, and the East River to the east.[4] Completed in 1952, the complex consists of several structures, including the Secretariat, Conference, and General Assembly buildings, and the Dag Hammarskjöld Library. The complex was designed by a board of architects led by Wallace Harrison and built by the architectural firm Harrison & Abramovitz, with final projects developed by Oscar Niemeyer and Le Corbusier. The term Turtle Bay is occasionally used as a metonym for the UN headquarters or for the United Nations as a whole.[5]

The headquarters holds the seats of the principal organs of the UN, including the General Assembly and the Security Council, but excluding the International Court of Justice, which is seated in The Hague. The United Nations has three additional subsidiary regional headquarters, or headquarters districts. These were opened in Geneva (Switzerland) in 1946, Vienna (Austria) in 1980, and Nairobi (Kenya) in 1996.[6][7] These adjunct offices help represent UN interests, facilitate diplomatic activities, and enjoy certain extraterritorial privileges, but do not contain the seats of major organs.

Although the structure is physically situated in the United States, the land occupied by the United Nations headquarters and the spaces of buildings that it rents are under the sole administration of the United Nations. They are technically extraterritorial through a treaty agreement with the U.S. government. However, in exchange for local police, fire protection, and other services, the United Nations agrees to acknowledge most local, state, and federal laws.[8]

None of the United Nations' 15 specialized agencies, such as UNESCO, are located at the headquarters. However, some autonomous subsidiary organs, such as UNICEF, are based at the UN's headquarters in New York City.